---
author: Cosmo
tags: dev
title: "Memoria : New Time Waster Unlocked"
name: "New Time Waster Unlocked"
---
I think I could probably spend the entire rest of my life fiddling around with CSS only to revert everything in the end anyway and have nothing to show for my efforts.

At this stage I have very little experience with Actual Practical Web Design that needs to be useable by humans, so one of the things on the agenda for the coming months is learning how to build things that are functional on mobile devices as well as desktop. You may notice the layout on my homepage currently doesn't work on smaller screens at all. Please don't look at my commit history. I will cry. I'm working on it.

I have also started learning Unity and C# on the side. I will definitely be sinking a lot more time into this and am very eager to do some game dev diary posts once I finish the tutorial projects I'm currently working on. I also miss Java! I have a growing list of small random projects I want to do. Maybe I'll drop everything and do that instead! Who knows.

Anyway, the current site update roadmap is as follows:

* Daily updates to the math reference page; continuing to add basic definitions, concepts, etc. These will be expanded later with explanations, proofs, and examples.

* Blog updates at least once a week. Hopefully this will help spur me to actually have things to write about.

* Regular screwing around with layouts as I speedrun patching the holes in my web dev fundamentals.

* Proper VPS hosting and custom domain(s) in ~3 months, if all goes to plan.