---
author: Cosmo
tags: dev, gaming
title: "Memoria : Updates and Accidents"
name: "Updates and Accidents"
---
Whoops! Had a small Medical Scare the last few days. It's fine. All my organs remain inside my body and in one piece. Probably.

This is one of the reasons work has been a bit slow, but I'm not really interested in making excuses. I am building up a lot of material that should get dumped on the math page in a few weeks. I'll also finally have time to work on the layout. I have discovered CSS media queries and basically they have ruined my life by doing exactly the thing that I was struggling with. CSS is truly a neverending labyrinth of despair with no escape.

In other news, the rest of the year is good eating for JRPG enjoyers. _Metaphor: ReFantazio_ is out, uh... today?!... and is currently getting overwhelmingly positive reviews. "_Persona_ without the school setting" is something I've been craving for a long time, and while I was kind of planning to put this one in the backlog, I am finding myself buying into the hype just a little bit. Meanwhile, _Visions of Mana_ has been out for a while and seems to have gone under the mainstream radar. It remains at the top of my backlog and I am very keen to start on it. The _Romancing SaGa 2_ remake is coming later this month, followed by _Dragon Quest III_ in November, and _Fantasian Neo Dimension_ in December. Suffice to say my gaming schedule is fully packed for a good while. My biggest trial to come is not letting it all get in the way of my dev stuff. Thankfully I have at least one person besides myself holding me accountable, hah.

More math coming soon!!