---
author: Cosmo
tags: dev personal
title: "Memoria : Baby's First NoSQL"
name: "Baby's First NoSQL"
---
"_Most agree that NoSQL databases store data in a more natural and flexible way._" - MongoDB FAQ which I am beginning to think is lying to me.

The last week or so I've been focused on getting some more practical backend experience and working with a stack I hear a lot about, "MERN". I have some experience with React, Node, and Express, but have only ever worked with relational databases before. I like relational DBs and SQL a lot, which is why I'm putting my efforts towards backend dev specifically, but MongoDB seems to come up so often I think it's time I actually learned what the heck a "NoSQL" is. Allegedly this is short for "no(t only) SQL".

I must say so far I remain unconvinced, and I miss the sweet sweet structure of tables and relationships. Still, I've only tinkered a little bit, and I'll report back once I actually have a working API and understand better how reading and writing to this kind of thing works in practice. For now, I can't really imagine a scenario where I wouldn't prefer just using MySQL or something, but every FAQ and tutorial in existence wants me to believe this is much more straightforward and intuitive, so I'll stick it out and see what happens.

Unrelated to coding, in a few hours I'm going to a secondhand book fair. I don't know if I'll actually come home with anything, but sifting through old books and looking for 80s/90s SFF is just One Of Those Things to me. I simply can't imagine anything better in life.