---
author: Cosmo
tags: gaming
title: "Memoria : Dawntrail 7.1: Thoughts & Impressions"
name: "Dawntrail 7.1: Thoughts & Impressions"
---
I'm a bit depressed I haven't done much work the last two days, but that's because patch 7.1 of _Final Fantasy XIV_ has just landed. This is just a brief collection of my initial thoughts and impressions; I still want to take a more comprehensive indepth look at _Dawntrail_'s story in the future. Note that __this post contains spoilers for 7.1 story content__.

## Main Scenario: _Crossroads_

I must admit I feel smugly satisfied with regards to telling people "no, this isn't a plot hole, the story is still ongoing" when they made certain complaints about 7.0. I got a lot of what I wanted to see out of this patch's MSQ, and a big hook that was very much expected but still a shock when it actually hit.

There were a lot of fan theories about Gulool Ja being a clone of his father, who may have wanted a son but been unable to conceive one. I didn't fully subscribe to these, but I did like the idea of fatherhood being part of Zoraal Ja's surpassing of his own father. In the end, it turns out he was so consumed with martial superiority and "proving the miracle" that the whole thing could not have mattered less to him; Gulool Ja's mother had questionable desires of her own, and it all came down to her. Several audio logs will now play in sequence.

Yuweyawata Field Station is the dungeon for this patch, and it brings a tense and foreboding atmosphere with it. There are two new boss mechanics that stand out as particularly interesting: the second boss creates ground hazards that players have to weave between while afflicted with a misdirection debuff. While I would not say I am *amazing* at these mechanics, I do always have fun with them and like to see them appear. In particular, having to weave between AoE puddles while the effect is active reminded me of an older _World of Warcraft_ boss: Durumu the Forgotten, from the Throne of Thunder raid, which had players running through a "maze" of poisonous puddles as they try to outrun his attacks. Many memorable wipes were had.

The most interesting fight of the dungeon, though, is the final boss, who partway through the fight smashes the floor of the arena and creates a giant pit that takes up most of the room. The pit is instant death to anyone who falls in, and the new arena is a thin donut shape around the outside. It's a common criticism that too many boss arenas in this game are simple squares or circles; I think this is one of the more creative and unexpected answers to that. It's especially fun when circular AoEs chase you around the edge of the pit; the timing to escape these feels very tight. I had to make sure to conserve my Sprint useage.

The latter part of the patch deals with Koana, who I felt was charming but a little underdeveloped in 7.0, especially during the latter half of the story where he did effectively nothing. Even the big "I'm not the only Dawnservant" moment (one of the highlights of _Dawntrail_, in my humble dragon-loving opinion) was him standing back and calling in an assist from Vrtra. Here we get to see Koana connect with his own people and learn the culture he was separated from as an infant. We see a bit of unease on Koana's part, a fear of finding out why he was abandoned, and it comes to an uplifting if slightly contrived conclusion. The series of coincidences that leads him to just *happen* to talk to a man who just *happened* to be present at the right time to *happen* to hear that a couple were killed trying to save their son that just *happened* to be Koana is one of those video game story Things we just shut up and accept sometimes.

We also return to an issue that was touched on but unexplored in 7.0; the construction of the railroad in Shaaloani is causing disruption to local wildlife. Engineering projects in the real world often either disregard the wishes of the native peoples whose land they are built on, or they pay lip service to the concept of "taking their feelings into account" without any real intent of listening to or acting on them. Here, Koana develops an aetheric tool that warns wild rroneek away from the train tracks without causing "undue harm" to the animals. While it is still something of an idealistic fantasy handwave, it is still a stronger committment to the idea than I expected; I didn't expect this thread to be revisited at all. I find _XIV_ is often guilty of presenting compelling ideas and then failing to explore them with the time and gravitas they deserve

Erenville also has a new outfit! This was actually my number one wish for this patch! It *is* just a dyed version of existing craftable gear, which is a shame, but it's a good outfit and a good look on him, and I'm glad he's finally out of his Gleaner uniform.

The big bomb drop this time is, of course, Sphene's sudden reappearance. I think a lot of us expected this; the last teaser shot we had in 7.0 was of her crown, which had been stated to be a special kind of regulator. However, it seems unlikely that this is the Sphene we are familiar with. I expect that it is a new construct built from a backup of her memory, or another entity altogether that has taken on her form (and possibly memories). As it's unlikely we fight Sphene herself again, I think there is a high chance some other entity is behind things this time. Thankfully, the fact that this twist was expected didn't do much to make it less surprising when it was dropped so suddenly into an otherwise normal scene. Unfortunately we'll have to wait other four months to see where it takes us.

I expect them to keep teasing us with the concept of the Azem key but to not fully address it until the leadup to next expansion (so, 7.4), but I think there's a reasonable chance I will be proven wrong there, given that Y'shtola has already appeared and started rooting around in Living Memory. (On this note, the figure in the final scene is implied to be Sphene by her reference to "my people", but she lacks Sphene's gloves from what we are able to see, so... who knows!)

## Alliance Raid: _Jeuno: The First Walk_

Anyone who knows me knows I am a huge fan of _Final Fantasy_ as a series. They might also know that _XI_ is the only mainline entry I have never touched in any form, nor have I ever been friends with anyone who played it, nor have I watched videos of it online. My knowledge, even by osmosis, is very small. Somehow, I had still at least *heard of* all four bosses in this raid, though none of the areas, music, or other references mean anything to me.

Story-wise, the raid series has the potential for massive lore implications; already we suspect that Vana'diel is a shard of Etheirys. I'd expected the writing to be laden with references and nothing more. It *is* laden with references, but the inclusion of Bakool Ja Ja, a popular main scenario character who might otherwise have been sidelined, and Sareel Ja, who previously accessed the rift to Living Memory, mean the story retains relevance to those of us who are not _XI_ fans as well.

All four of the bosses are frantic have have a strong sense of scale. Prishe has a strong personality and voice acting, and reuses the "uppercut" mechanic from Arcadion M1 that was popular with many players (including me!). Fafnir is enormous and hits extremely hard, making movement and positioning critical in his huge arena. The Ark Angels are my favorite encounter - five bosses between only three tanks! - and have a chaotic array of moves with very little downtime. Thankfully, they do not appear to have any sort of proximity tether (as is common in other multi-boss encounters), and one of them even has an interruptible ability, which is always a win with me. Having just rerun this as a DPS prior to writing, I definitely found it the most fun as a tank.

The final boss, Shadow Lord, is unfortunately both the most frustrating and least remarkable of the raid. He has a lot of very cool, dramatic lines during the fight, but it is difficult to appreciate them fully without knowing the character, and his design is not particularly interesting. My main point of criticism, though, is the difficulty I have in reading his large swipes, which he telegraphs 2-3 of in sequence before executing. Still, there are a number of unique and fun mechanics to be seen; as we saw in the main scenario dungeon, ground hazards that restrict floor space are always fun, and this time they are combined with aggressive knockbacks to make positioning even more important.

All in all, an excellent and very promising start to the raid series. I'm already keen to see parts two and three, but it's hard to speculate about content when I'm already running out of _XI_ characters I would actually recognize and haven't been used in _XIV_ before.

## Allied Society: _Turali Travel Agency_

I have to admit, I don't find these super compelling to begin with, but we won't see the whole storyline for a few weeks. Still, Kozama'uka is one of the most beautiful and detailed zones in not only Tural but the entire game, and I automatically find anything involving music or designs from other _Final Fantasy_ games endearing. The quest hub features both the music and building layout of Rin's travel agency from _Final Fantasy X_, a fitting decision since the pelupelu race themselves also originate from the same game.

As someone who already has all my jobs at level 100, the experience from the dailies is a bit useless, but it's nice to have some simple chores in a colourful area to do while waiting for roulettes.

## Big Fishing

The most important content of all, obviously.

As of writing, we are around 48 hours into the patch, and I will say I have already caught all eight new big fish. None of them are paticularly hard; the most "difficult" is Stardust Sleeper, which is the third step in a mooch chain, but even that only requires arriving a few minutes early and stacking swimbait in order to get a good shot at it. Two fish also require the use of the new level 100 lure abilities, notable as they are the first big fish to do so, although they don't do anything especially unique with them. 

Despite their ease, it was refreshing to be able to attempt new big fish again after a long time. I'm excited for more difficult big fish in _Dawntrail_'s future! (...and terrified of the concept of a legendary that requires a chain shark mooch. Thankfully the possibility of such a thing is approximately two years away.)

That's all there is to say for now; I will now be either running treasure dungeons the rest of my life or waiting for weapon coffer prices to drop. I need that flashy pink greatsword. Need it.